README.md, before:


# CoreElement - fastest and easiest way to build modern web UI

### Key Functions

* Component creation and registration in browser
* Work with templates (native syntax)
* Dynamic data bindings
* Component state management
* Reactions on attribute changes
* Property change callbacks
* Work with Shadow DOM polyfills (FireFox < 63; Edge)

### Concept Basics:

* Truly small and simple (KISS, please!)
* Flexible and extensible. As nothing else
* Based on modern web standards: [Custom Elements and Shadow DOM](https://www.webcomponents.org/specs)
* Native DOM APIs - are cool and powerful! Stop hiding them!
* Effective updates for DOM subtree nodes without fatty JavaScript abstractions
* Native HTML & CSS syntax in templates
* Code splitting for logic, markup and styles  - is a good practice
* Native ES Modules - are best for code decomposition
* No need for any specific build tools or environment setup
* OOP - is awesome!
* Performance matter

## Example

```html
<script type="module">
  import { CoreElement } from './core-element/src/core-element.js';

  class MyComponent extends CoreElement {

    constructor() {
      super();

      // `state` object describes all you need to manage component's state:
      // attribute values, properties, elements contents and user action handlers.
      // You can use any custom structure you like
      this.state = {
        timestamp: Date.now(),
        heading: '<h1>Some Heading</h1>',
        clicksNum: 0,
        class: 'some-class',
        actions: {
          click: () => {
            this.setStateProperty('clicksNum', this.state.clicksNum + 1);
          },
        },
      };

    }

    // awakes when custom DOM attribute `reversed` is changed, defined or removed
    set reversed(newVal) {
      if (this.hasAttribute('reversed')) {
        this.setStateProperty('actions.click', () => {
          this.setStateProperty('clicksNum', this.state.clicksNum - 1);
        });
      }
    }

  }

  // Can be stored as external module with a template string inside.
  // For correct syntax highlighting you will need IDE settings.
  // For example, *.css.js files can be setted as HTML type. 
  MyComponent.styles = `
  <style>
    :host {
      display: block;
    }
    .some-class {
      font-size: 40px;
      color: #00c;
    }
  </style>
  `;

  // Can be stored as external module with a template string inside.
  // For correct syntax highlighting you will need IDE settings.
  // For example, *.tpl.js files can be setted as HTML type. 
  MyComponent.template = `
  <div bind="onclick: actions.click; className: class">
    <div bind="textContent: timestamp"></div>
    <div bind="innerHTML: heading"></div>
    <div bind="textContent: clicksNum"></div>
    <slot></slot>
  </div>
  `;

  // All listed attributes will be accessible as property setters
  MyComponent.logicAttributes = [
    'reversed',
  ];

  // `is` property defines custom tag name for component
  MyComponent.is = 'my-component';
</script>

<my-component reversed></my-component>
```

## Slots

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/slot

## ES Modules

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import

As your development or prototyping workflow, you can resolve all your project dependencies natively, with a modern browser. You will need local server only.

But it's not recommended for production purposes in complex applications. It's better to use module bundler, such as [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) or [rollup.js](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en).

## Livecycle (native)

`constructor()`
- Component is not added to DOM, child and parent nodes are NOT available
- Shadow DOM is created and can be used
- Any inner modifications are not calling browser redraws

`connectedCallback()`
- Component added to DOM
- Child elements and parent nodes - are available
- Browser starts to draw component

`disconnectedCallback()`
- Component removed from DOM

## Template Bindings

Example:
```html
<div bind="textContent: name; className: styling.type; onclick: actions.click"></div>
```

Template bindings can be described in key-value format. So, key - is a own element property and value - is a path to `state` object field.

>ATTENTION: if element has no explicitly defined property (`undefined`) - value will be setted as attribute.

## External Bindings

External bindings is intended for external connections creation (outside of the templates). They can be used for regular HTML-pages to establish a connection between custom elements. Without coding.

Example:
```html
<tabs-ui current="cat" bind-id="my-binding" bind-prop="current">
  <tab-ui value="cat" icon="cat">Cat</tab-ui>
  <tab-ui value="dog" icon="dog">Dog</tab-ui>
  <tab-ui value="fish" icon="fish">Fish</tab-ui>
</tabs-ui>

<tabs-context bind-id="my-binding" bind-prop="current">
  <div ctx="cat">
    CAT
  </div>
  <div ctx="dog">
    DOG
  </div>
  <div ctx="fish">
    FISH
  </div>
</tabs-context>
```

## Template Shortcuts

If unique ID of the template element contains the dash symbol (`-`)  - it will be available as component's own property.

Example:
```html
<button-ui id="my-button"></button-ui>
```

```javascript
this['my-button'].onclick = () => { ... };
```

Property `$` - can be used as a shortcut for the component's [shadowRoot](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/shadowRoot).

Example:
```javascript
let divsCollection = this.$.querySelectorAll('div');
```

## Methods

`setStateProperty(path, value)` - updates component's `state` property.

Example:
```javascript
this.setStateProperty('user.name', 'John');
```

`setStatePropertyLater(path, value, debounceTimeout)` - updates component's `state` property asynchronously, using last actual value.

Example:
```javascript
this['input-element'].oninput = () => {
  this.setStatePropertyLater('user.name', this['input-element'].value, 200);
};
```

`updateTemplateBindings()` - if needed, rewrites component's bindings map after Shadow DOM update.

`notify(propName, propValue)` - implement to call for external callback - `on<Prop>Change` - with a new value as parameter.

Example:
```javascript
// internal code:
this.notify('checked', true);

// external code:
checkbox.onCheckedChange = (newValue) => { ... };
```

`whenConnected` - asynchronous handler. Called after rendering started.

`onStateUpdated` - state update stage handler.


## Need more abilities?

Just extend it!
```javascript
class MySuperFrameworkClass extends CoreElement {

  coolFunction() {
    ...
  }

}
```

## Syntax highlighting for styles & markup external files

[VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) `settings.json` example:

```json
{
  "files.associations": {
    "*.tpl.js": "html",
    "*.css.js": "html"
  }
}
```

## Browser Support & Polyfills 

https://github.com/WebComponents/webcomponentsjs

#### Native Support (caniuse.com)

* [Custom Elements](https://caniuse.com/#feat=custom-elementsv1)
* [Shadow DOM](https://caniuse.com/#feat=shadowdomv1)
* [ES Modules](https://caniuse.com/#feat=es6-module)

#### With polyfills

https://github.com/WebComponents/webcomponentsjs#browser-support


## Quick Installation

`git submodule add -b master https://github.com/foxeyes/core-element core-element`

Git-module approach allows you to put your dependency to any path in project structure you prefer, select branches and versions, create your own branches and use git tooling to manage code more flexible.

For getting updates:

`git submodule update --init --recursive --remote`

[About git submodules](https://blog.github.com/2016-02-01-working-with-submodules/)

Commit message:

README update: @-prefix for attributes

README.md, after:


# CoreElement - fastest and easiest way to build modern web UI

### Key Functions

* Component creation and registration in browser
* Work with templates (native syntax)
* Dynamic data bindings
* Component state management
* Reactions on attribute changes
* Property change callbacks
* Work with Shadow DOM polyfills (FireFox < 63; Edge)

### Concept Basics:

* Truly small and simple (KISS, please!)
* Flexible and extensible. As nothing else
* Based on modern web standards: [Custom Elements and Shadow DOM](https://www.webcomponents.org/specs)
* Native DOM APIs - are cool and powerful! Stop hiding them!
* Effective updates for DOM subtree nodes without fatty JavaScript abstractions
* Native HTML & CSS syntax in templates
* Code splitting for logic, markup and styles  - is a good practice
* Native ES Modules - are best for code decomposition
* No need for any specific build tools or environment setup
* OOP - is awesome!
* Performance matter

## Example

```html
<script type="module">
  import { CoreElement } from './core-element/src/core-element.js';

  class MyComponent extends CoreElement {

    constructor() {
      super();

      // `state` object describes all you need to manage component's state:
      // attribute values, properties, elements contents and user action handlers.
      // You can use any custom structure you like
      this.state = {
        timestamp: Date.now(),
        heading: '<h1>Some Heading</h1>',
        clicksNum: 0,
        class: 'some-class',
        actions: {
          click: () => {
            this.setStateProperty('clicksNum', this.state.clicksNum + 1);
          },
        },
      };

    }

    // awakes when custom DOM attribute `reversed` is changed, defined or removed
    set reversed(newVal) {
      if (this.hasAttribute('reversed')) {
        this.setStateProperty('actions.click', () => {
          this.setStateProperty('clicksNum', this.state.clicksNum - 1);
        });
      }
    }

  }

  // Can be stored as external module with a template string inside.
  // For correct syntax highlighting you will need IDE settings.
  // For example, *.css.js files can be setted as HTML type. 
  MyComponent.styles = `
  <style>
    :host {
      display: block;
    }
    .some-class {
      font-size: 40px;
      color: #00c;
    }
  </style>
  `;

  // Can be stored as external module with a template string inside.
  // For correct syntax highlighting you will need IDE settings.
  // For example, *.tpl.js files can be setted as HTML type. 
  MyComponent.template = `
  <div bind="onclick: actions.click; className: class">
    <div bind="textContent: timestamp"></div>
    <div bind="innerHTML: heading"></div>
    <div bind="textContent: clicksNum"></div>
    <slot></slot>
  </div>
  `;

  // All listed attributes will be accessible as property setters
  MyComponent.logicAttributes = [
    'reversed',
  ];

  // `is` property defines custom tag name for component
  MyComponent.is = 'my-component';
</script>

<my-component reversed></my-component>
```

## Slots

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/slot

## ES Modules

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import

As your development or prototyping workflow, you can resolve all your project dependencies natively, with a modern browser. You will need local server only.

But it's not recommended for production purposes in complex applications. It's better to use module bundler, such as [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) or [rollup.js](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en).

## Livecycle (native)

`constructor()`
- Component is not added to DOM, child and parent nodes are NOT available
- Shadow DOM is created and can be used
- Any inner modifications are not calling browser redraws

`connectedCallback()`
- Component added to DOM
- Child elements and parent nodes - are available
- Browser starts to draw component

`disconnectedCallback()`
- Component removed from DOM

## Template Bindings

Example:
```html
<div bind="textContent: name; className: styling.type; onclick: actions.click"></div>
```

Template bindings can be described in key-value format. So, key - is a own element property and value - is a path to `state` object field.

For bind to attribute use `@`-prefix. Example:
```html
<div bind="@attribute: attributeValue"></div>
```

## External Bindings

External bindings is intended for external connections creation (outside of the templates). They can be used for regular HTML-pages to establish a connection between custom elements. Without coding.

Example:
```html
<tabs-ui current="cat" bind-id="my-binding" bind-prop="current">
  <tab-ui value="cat" icon="cat">Cat</tab-ui>
  <tab-ui value="dog" icon="dog">Dog</tab-ui>
  <tab-ui value="fish" icon="fish">Fish</tab-ui>
</tabs-ui>

<tabs-context bind-id="my-binding" bind-prop="current">
  <div ctx="cat">
    CAT
  </div>
  <div ctx="dog">
    DOG
  </div>
  <div ctx="fish">
    FISH
  </div>
</tabs-context>
```

## Template Shortcuts

If unique ID of the template element contains the dash symbol (`-`)  - it will be available as component's own property.

Example:
```html
<button-ui id="my-button"></button-ui>
```

```javascript
this['my-button'].onclick = () => { ... };
```

Property `$` - can be used as a shortcut for the component's [shadowRoot](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/shadowRoot).

Example:
```javascript
let divsCollection = this.$.querySelectorAll('div');
```

## Methods

`setStateProperty(path, value)` - updates component's `state` property.

Example:
```javascript
this.setStateProperty('user.name', 'John');
```

`setStatePropertyLater(path, value, debounceTimeout)` - updates component's `state` property asynchronously, using last actual value.

Example:
```javascript
this['input-element'].oninput = () => {
  this.setStatePropertyLater('user.name', this['input-element'].value, 200);
};
```

`updateTemplateBindings()` - if needed, rewrites component's bindings map after Shadow DOM update.

`notify(propName, propValue)` - implement to call for external callback - `on<Prop>Change` - with a new value as parameter.

Example:
```javascript
// internal code:
this.notify('checked', true);

// external code:
checkbox.onCheckedChange = (newValue) => { ... };
```

`whenConnected` - asynchronous handler. Called after rendering started.

`onStateUpdated` - state update stage handler.


## Need more abilities?

Just extend it!
```javascript
class MySuperFrameworkClass extends CoreElement {

  coolFunction() {
    ...
  }

}
```

## Syntax highlighting for styles & markup external files

[VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) `settings.json` example:

```json
{
  "files.associations": {
    "*.tpl.js": "html",
    "*.css.js": "html"
  }
}
```

## Browser Support & Polyfills 

https://github.com/WebComponents/webcomponentsjs

#### Native Support (caniuse.com)

* [Custom Elements](https://caniuse.com/#feat=custom-elementsv1)
* [Shadow DOM](https://caniuse.com/#feat=shadowdomv1)
* [ES Modules](https://caniuse.com/#feat=es6-module)

#### With polyfills

https://github.com/WebComponents/webcomponentsjs#browser-support


## Quick Installation

`git submodule add -b master https://github.com/foxeyes/core-element core-element`

Git-module approach allows you to put your dependency to any path in project structure you prefer, select branches and versions, create your own branches and use git tooling to manage code more flexible.

For getting updates:

`git submodule update --init --recursive --remote`

[About git submodules](https://blog.github.com/2016-02-01-working-with-submodules/)
